Well, now we have something exciting.
We’re pleased to feature a new part
on our Gilead program this year.
Now, they’ve made me promise
not to say another word.
So let’s enjoy this new feature together.
Thanks for coming.
Follow me.
I need to talk to Ken
about something really important.
Come on!
Come in!
Ken, I have some interesting news
I need to share with you.
It’s exciting!
I could tell by the look
on your face something is up.
It is.
It’s about the Gilead graduation program.
Oh, no!
Not a change!
Yeah, a change.
But it’s so intriguing; it’s positive.
You know, the student experiences part
that we’ve had for many years?
They share their field service experiences.
I love that part.
And I do too, but the Teaching Committee
wants to broaden it out.
Look, Ken, the students
are from all over the world,
coming from various branches.
Yeah, that’s true.
They have experiences they can share,
perhaps from their own branch
or maybe something
about the Kingdom work
that is taking place
in that country.
It’s going to be exciting,
different, interesting.
I like it, but I’m wondering. . .
It’s just broadening it out.
But I’m wondering, you know,
everybody is used to that experiences format.
Mhm, I know.
What’s the format
of this new segment going to be?
You’re going to love it—a talk show!
A talk show?
A talk show.
It means, though,
you’re going to have to build a set.
You’re going to have to have lighting.
What about if they can sing
or there’s musical instruments
that they can play?
We’ll need a little spot for them
to actually perform a song.
I’m thinking, though,
if it’s going to be a show,
it’s got to have a name.
What are you thinking?
Make it unique.
OK.
“The Inside Story.”
Ken, it resonates.
Because you’re getting it
—you’re getting “the inside story.”
I love it!
“The Inside Story.”
Let’s go with that.
OK.
But, Mark, we are weeks away
from Gilead graduation.
I know, we’ll have to work hard
to pull this off.
Do you think we can get
this done in time?
Let’s see.
Friends, you are in for a real treat!
I’m here with the whole class of Gilead,
and they’ve gotten together
to get better acquainted
with some of their classmates,
and we have been invited to this occasion.
You are going to meet
some lovable brothers and sisters,
and you are going to hear some exciting,
faith-strengthening experiences.
You’re also going to hear
some delightful music
because some in this class
have musical talent.
So, come with me,
and we’re going to get
“the inside story.”
Our first guest is Sister Evelyn Huber
who is a single sister in this class,
and she’s serving in Paraguay.
Evelyn, thank you so much for coming.
You were living in a neighborhood like this
in Munich, a culturally rich city.
You lived in an apartment like this
—very sleek, modern, nice.
You had a good-paying job
and you were pioneering.
How did you end up
clear around the world in Paraguay?
Yes, that was actually quite a change for me.
So there was this German Kingdom Ministry
back then in 2005
that mentioned
a large German-speaking community
in Paraguay,
and a great need
for German-speaking publishers
there in South America.
And that call—that announcement—
really touched my heart.
I wanted to go there;
I wanted to serve there.
So I wrote my letter to the branch.
They invited me over,
and a few months later,
I arrived in Paraguay.
And they sent me together
with seven others
to Santa Rosa del Aguaray,
and there we started
a German activity from zero.
Now, when you got there, though,
you got a little bit of a surprise.
So we arrived in the first colony,
and I talked to a man.
And after my nice introduction,
he just looked at me
with big eyes and he said,
“Ekj kaun die nijch vestohne.”
So, “Sorry, I can’t understand you.”
And I looked at him and I said,
“I can’t understand you either.”
That was the moment
when I realized these people
—the Mennonites—
they don’t speak our German.
They have their own language,
the so-called Low German.
How do you learn Low German?
There are no books that exist
for learning the language
—Low German.
And we didn’t have Internet
at that time in our area in Paraguay.
So we really didn’t know how
to learn the language.
We prayed to Jehovah and we said,
“Jehovah, we really want
to preach to these people.”
And an 80-year-old Mennonite man
was the answer to our prayer.
That’s him; that’s Willie.
He really wanted to study the Bible.
So we taught him the Bible,
and he taught us the language
—Low German.
And he was an excellent Bible student
and also a fantastic language teacher.
Well, isn’t that amazing?
Now, I do understand, though,
that you learned a trick that helped you
to be better understood
by those Low German speakers.
We found out
that when we spoke our German
like Americans,
with an American accent. . .
Now, with an American accent.
What do you mean by that?
I’ll give you an example: “Good morning.”
In German, we would say, “Guten Morgen,”
and Americans would say,
“Guten Morgen” with the “rrr” sound.
Oh, OK.
I get it.
And they said: “Please talk to us like that.
It is so much better to understand you.”
So for quite a while,
we kept on going like that.
So the American accent r-r-really helped you.
Finally, you came to a realization
that you were beginning
to get fluent in the language.
How did that happen?
We went out again in the ministry,
and a very furious lady
—Mennonite lady—
came out of her house.
And while she was yelling at us,
I realized, ‘Wow!
I understand every single word
that she’s saying to me!’
So I looked at my pioneer partner,
Tanya, and she looked so happy too.
And the lady thought
we couldn’t understand her.
Because you’re smiling at her.
So she repeated the whole thing again.
And that was our confirmation.
Wow!
We really understood her,
and we really understood Low German.
So with a big smile
and very happy, we left her farm.
I see.
I’m sure she was really confused.
Evelyn, could you
just kind of explain to us,
What are some
of the challenges you face
as a single sister in your territory
there in Paraguay?
Let’s go to Paraguay!
Would you join me
in traveling to a Mennonite colony?
Let’s go!
The trip takes us approximately three hours.
Now we enter the real Paraguayan roads
—bright red sand—
sometimes dry and dusty
and sometimes just muddy and dirty.
There we are traveling,
having time to enjoy
Jehovah’s wonderful creation
and to think about the people
we are going to visit today.
Do you know what we especially love?
When we enter a colony
and the following happens:
Children come running out of their homes
asking for new Caleb
and Sophia videos.
Kids just love the videos,
and we are so happy
to have them now also in Low German.
Ah, now you see
what Mennonite homes look like.
They have nice houses, lovely gardens.
They all have their own farm.
It’s really a pleasure when you get
to study with the Mennonites.
It’s so encouraging
when one of your studies
progresses enough
to come to the meetings;
it takes great courage for them.
And you really have
to meet my congregation,
Santa Rosa Low German
—full of zealous pioneers and publishers.
Ah, look at them!
Here are my beloved brothers and sisters.
So good to see them all again.
They all send us their love.
That was a very touching video.
It seems like such an exciting life.
I realized how much Jehovah
can do with single sisters
—how he uses them.
And in my congregation,
there are actually
more than 50 percent of single sisters.
I see.
There’s a long heritage,
actually, for sisters going to Gilead,
serving in foreign assignments.
Jehovah really loves single sisters.
They are precious to him.
Well, that’s certainly the truth.
And we are very proud of you
and all the single sisters
and very appreciative
of the huge contribution that you’ve made
to the worldwide work
and the Kingdom efforts.
It’s amazing,
and we know Jehovah loves you.
It’s been such a pleasure
getting to know you, Evelyn.
Thank you so much for sharing
your experiences with us.
That was my pleasure.
Thank you.
Now, Evelyn,
I have one more question for you.
Were you surprised to find out
that there was
so much musical talent in your class?
Whoa!
I definitely was, uh-hu.
Well, now it’s time to get
a sample of that musical talent.
We have a band!
They’re going to perform an original song
composed by one of your classmates.
And the song is entitled
“Pronto Será Realidad.”
In English that means
“soon it will be a reality.”
Let’s listen to “Pronto Será Realidad.”
That was a great song
—very touching.
Our next guest is actually
one of the band members.
Let’s welcome Brother Joel Hurley.
So, Joel, you’re serving
at the branch in Australia now.
But you have a rich heritage in the truth
given to you by your grandparents, parents.
Could you just explain
a little bit about that to us?
My grandfather actually learned the truth
from a fellow band member.
He was so impressed
with the use of God’s name
and that God’s name
was Jehovah that he made sure
that he taught the truth
to many family members.
But sometime later in 1960,
they decided as a family to move
to serve where the need was greater,
so they moved to the Pacific islands in Fiji.
So my dad grew up in Fiji.
I see.
I think we have a picture, yeah.
There’s my dad next to the car;
they’re witnessing
to the village chief and his family
—so memories of them
growing up in Fiji.
Later on, he married my mum
and they continued
to serve there for some time.
They really did have
a big impact on my early years
—preaching in the villages;
organizing special conventions;
events, such as
the Around-the-World convention.
We see Brother Franz.
So now, as a young person,
then, you decided to learn Japanese.
Why did you do that?
Well, in the early 80’s,
there was a Japanese group attached
to the Kingdom Hall where we attended,
so there was a need at the time
in that group.
In fact, many from Japan came to help out.
They encouraged me to learn Japanese,
so I began to learn the language.
So you’ve been speaking
Japanese now for how long?
Thirty-odd years.
My goodness!
Now, you went to MTS.
And after MTS graduation,
tell us about some of your assignments.
The first assignment
was with the Japanese group,
and shortly after,
it became a congregation.
A whole range of different backgrounds
came into the truth:
CEOs in Japanese companies,
young ones for the first time
who learned the truth,
and even a Buddhist monk learned the truth
and became a zealous pioneer
in the congregation.
What was your next assignment?
It was the other side of the country
—to western Australia—
to a country assignment.
Western Australia,
now, is that the outback?
We’ve all heard about the outback.
Well, parts of it
are called the Golden Outback,
but there’s a lot of bushland.
There’s a large farming community
—wheat, sheep.
You have a picture here
of some of the things.
In fact, there’s a variety of people
that we were able to speak to
in that territory.
You say, “a variety of people.”
I don’t see too many people in that picture.
Where did this variety come from?
Well, there were townships,
there were the farmers,
there were “bushies”
—ones who live off the land—
Australian aborigines, and tourists.
Tourists?
So way out there
in rural Australia there are tourists?
What is there to see?
They’d come to visit the famous icons
in the area, for example, “Wave Rock.”
This is a natural rock formation
in the shape of a breaking wave.
In fact, one time
there was this Japanese man
who cycled across Australia
and was camping not far from the rock.
I was able to speak to him
and use my Japanese.
He was interested.
The next day, he traveled
100 or so kilometers (60 miles)
to where I was living.
I followed up the interest
and then was able
to pass it on to Japan
for further follow-up.
Was there a congregation
out there in the rural areas?
It was a small family-like congregation.
We stuck together.
I see.
So how far would they
have to drive sometimes?
Over 100 kilometers (60 miles)
in many instances,
on gravel roads—roads whereby
a mob of kangaroos
could actually come out.
So quite challenging.
Sorry, Joel,
one second, a mob of kangaroos.
What’s that?
I was wondering the same thing.
What do you mean a mob?
For example, coming home from a Bible study
at dusk one night on a dirt road,
suddenly I find
this mob of kangaroos
—10, 15 kangaroos around the car.
So you just have to be careful in those areas
to make sure you take caution at all times.
That’s quite a picture
—you know, mental picture—
all of these kangaroos
bouncing around the car.
After that rural assignment,
you had some assignments
to some bigger cities
and then you did
some substitute circuit work
and then you were reassigned
to Bethel.
So at Bethel, you are back
in the Japanese congregation.
So, Joel, tell us,
what is it like being at Bethel
serving in a Japanese congregation?
Well, would you like
to have a look at a video
which explains
what our territory is like?
Of course we would.
We only have one
Japanese language congregation in Sydney,
so our territory is vast.
We typically spend long days in the ministry.
Some of us will leave early in the morning
to catch the ferry
and go to a popular tourist place
called Circular Quay.
There are many Japanese tourists here.
We’ll often find a group
of Japanese tourists
setting up to take a photo.
We might approach them and say:
“Shyashin wo torimasho ka?”
“Can I take a photo for you?”
A good conversation then begins.
The many young Japanese pioneers
still in school
may join up with us
later in the afternoon.
The interested person may hear
the message for the first time
and attend the meeting that night.
We often enjoy refreshing association
with each other in the congregation,
particularly after a long day
in the ministry.
Recently, we just had
our first pioneer school in Japanese.
They were so grateful
that they didn’t have to travel
back to Japan to attend the school.
There’s really no separation
between ministry and life.
It is life—the best life.
Kon’ichiwa!
Thank you for sharing that video.
It seems like you have
a very nice assignment there.
Now, looking back over your life,
Joel, would you have chosen
—now looking back—
to do anything else?
At times there have been challenges,
whether that be loneliness or isolation
because of language or the environment.
But it’s really given me an opportunity
to rely on Jehovah God at that time
—to learn endurance.
He’s provided family,
friends wherever I’ve gone.
And to be able to sense Jehovah’s pleasure
and Jehovah’s support at these times
is something that I’m really grateful for.
Joel, this has been very pleasurable
—talking to you—
and very encouraging.
Thank you for sharing
your experiences with us.
Now, Joel, it’s time
for you to go back to the piano.
Our band is going to play
another song for us.
And like the first one,
this is an original composition
written by one of your classmates.
This song is entitled
“The Promised Land.”
Let’s listen.
What a beautiful song!
What wonderful sentiments
were expressed there.
Well, we’ve been to Paraguay;
we’ve been to Australia;
now it’s time to go to Russia.
Our final guest is Brother Moses Ajiboye,
who’s serving in the Russia branch.
Back in 1988,
you were a man in your late teens
pioneering in Britain,
but somehow you ended up in Soviet Russia
pioneering in a country under ban.
How did that happen, Moses?
My pioneer partner and myself,
we were out in the ministry
and met a man who happened
to be a diplomat from Russia,
and he was interested,
and we would go back to him
and make return visits regularly.
And after a few weeks,
he asked us
if we want to go to Moscow.
He offered us, actually,
a free language scholarship
for three months.
That was back in 1988.
What happened in the meantime?
Following the three months,
during the language course,
the professor—one of the professors
who was teaching the language—
helped to upgrade my language scholarship
into a medical scholarship.
A medical scholarship?
Like a medical student.
My goodness, so now you’re going
to medical school
and you’re pioneering.
That’s right, absolutely.
But, even so, you really didn’t plan
to finish the medical degree.
But what happened?
I thought that the ban
would be lifted pretty soon
and that I would be serving
as a pioneer
in a territory where the need is great.
But, you see, the lifting
of the ban took several years.
And so you kept going to medical school?
That’s right.
Nineteen ninety-one, March 27,
could you just explain to us about that?
The ban was lifted; we are registered.
It means that we have freedom of religion,
so we cannot stay
in those private homes anymore.
I think we have a picture, yeah.
And so, yeah,
this is the first place we actually got.
It was a movie theater
in one part of Moscow that we rented,
and we read
the first letter that we got
from the organization
about the lifting of the ban.
The brother who read it,
it took him about 20 minutes
to read a one-and-a-half page letter.
Why did it take so long?
Wow, you can imagine.
Many years they were under ban,
and now the ban is lifted.
The friends cannot believe it,
even the brother himself.
There was a lot of crying and cries of joy.
And, oh, it was a touching moment.
I’ll never forget that.
How did you care
for all the new ones coming in?
By 1992, we already had
four large congregations in Moscow.
When you say large,
how many are we talking about?
Well, up to 800 publishers in each of them.
If we had enough elders,
those congregations would have split
into three, four, or even five.
We used to have, for example, book studies.
You only had a few elders.
How did you have
enough book study conductors?
We figured out that any male member
of the congregation
who gets baptized will get a book study.
We’re happy that they
made themselves available.
They were very zealous.
But some of the material we discussed
in the book study was pretty deep.
Yes.
How did they manage to teach it correctly?
We would put
all these newly baptized brothers
who conducted book studies
together on a Sunday evening
and have three to four-hour sessions
with them.
Yes, there are some of them.
These brothers are
newly baptized book study conductors.
Now, this was just one of the groups.
There were several groups like this.
Many.
My goodness.
How did you manage, even on the weekend,
to have enough speakers
for public talks and things?
Absolutely.
And in Moscow at that time,
there were only a few elders;
so we were all grouped together,
basically, into one body of elders;
and each one of us were
on a rotating list of giving public talks.
So some brothers on the weekends
—Saturdays and Sundays—
we had many meetings.
They would go and give two to three talks.
Myself, because I was single,
very often gave four to five talks
every weekend.
Oh, my goodness.
Amazing!
Now, let’s take a look
at this next picture we have here.
So here we see Brother Jaracz.
This is shortly after the ban.
And can you tell us one of the things
he’s explaining to you here?
We were all in the audience,
and he told us of the importance
to go through the baptismal questions
with each one individually.
And then as we sat
in the audience, most of us said,
“Oh, how on earth are we going to do that?”
Because before that
—you know, Brother Stovall—
we would put 30, 40 people together
and just go through
the questions with them
because the influx was so big;
we basically
could not handle them individually.
But Brother Jaracz
proved the point by telling us
that the Organized to Accomplish Our Ministry
book is for that purpose,
because we want
a spiritually strong organization,
not just the statistics.
We obeyed, but it was not easy
in the beginning.
So how did you do it?
I mean, how long did it take
to go through these questions
with these baptismal candidates?
Well, it took many hours
for many elders to do that.
Myself, because I was single
and young back then,
I remember occasions
where I would sit at 8:00 a.m.
with the first candidate
—baptismal candidate—
and end up at 12:00 midnight.
And they would take their turns;
after work, they would come;
they were not going to miss their turn.
That was how zealous
the harvest was and the brothers were.
So let me get this straight.
So you’re pioneering;
you’re going to medical school;
you’re giving five talks on the weekend;
you’re spending three hours in sessions
with book study conductors;
you’re spending from eight to midnight
with baptismal candidates.
How did you do it?
Holy spirit.
And we were young.
When we’re young,
we think we can move mountains,
but the holy spirit was actually obvious.
The branch, then, has asked you
to come to the branch from the field.
And probably you were happy
because that would have been relief,
I think, from this schedule.
You know, to be honest Brother Stovall,
it was the opposite.
It was the harvesttime.
And, you know, to experience
the joy of what Jesus said
about the harvest
—that ‘the harvest is great
and the workers are joyous.’
Many things were happening.
People were coming in.
We were studying the Bible
with hundreds of people.
You say you’ve actually been involved
with helping hundreds of people
into the truth?
Yes, directly or indirectly sitting
and studying the Bible.
And so, I didn’t hurry to go down there.
Conventions were going on,
all these meetings.
But they tracked you down.
Oh, yes, they did.
And I was obedient
when they tracked me down
and later on apologized
for my behavior.
So, what did you do
when you went to the branch?
The branch actually wanted me to set up
the Hospital Information Desk work.
Amazing! So that medical training
really has been very valuable.
So, what is it like, then,
working with the HID in Russia?
How about if we look at a video?
It would be easier to just give you the gist
of what happens
and how that work is going on in Russia.
That would be great.
One of our sisters was told
that she needed a blood transfusion.
But the doctor said,
“They should forget about their religion
because I am like God to them.”
Incidentally, I caught a cockroach
crawling on the floor of his office.
Then I smashed the cockroach,
and I told him:
“That cockroach is dead.
“Now if you can bring it back to life,
then I believe you are a god.”
Well, he could say nothing at all.
Righteous indignation gave me the courage
to go and clear our case
with the director of the hospital.
There’s no doubt Jehovah
really was helping us.
That director became one
of our strongest advocates
in bloodless surgeries.
Later, he would even speak in our behalf
to many doctors and conferences.
Look at this beautiful little girl.
She was born with a blood condition.
It was a real fight not to give her blood.
Her case went
all the way to the European Court,
and we won the case.
There she is now, healthy and happy.
Experiences like these
in the HLC work
have really touched my heart.
Moses, thank you so much
for those very encouraging experiences.
Wasn’t this just
an amazingly enjoyable occasion?
It’s been so thrilling,
so faith strengthening
to get to know these brothers
and sisters who have worked so hard,
who Jehovah has blessed
to such a degree.
Really, we wish and hope
that Jehovah blesses you
as you continue
to work hard in his service
until the next time we get together
to get “the inside story.”
Well, what did you think of the new feature?
I’m sure we’ll be seeing
more of that in the future.
We can certainly hope.
Well, now it’s time
for you to participate again.
If you can, would you please stand,
and we’ll sing song number 110,
which is entitled
“The Joy of Jehovah,” song 110.